In statistics, there are methods known as supervised and unsupervised learning methods.
You might remember learning
various predictive methods such as linear or logistic regression.
These modeling methods are based on using a set of
predictor variables to build a model that will predict a target variable.
In statistical vernacular, this is called supervised learning,
where the modeling process learns from the target
or dependent variable as it creates the model.
Unsupervised learning is a little different,
and clustering is an example of this.
With unsupervised learning, there is
no target variable that is used in creating the model.
With this method, the clustering algorithm used
learns from the multiple variables supplied in the data.
It then groups the objects without being told the logic by which to do it.
After this process, it ends up creating a new variable known as the cluster number.
Since clustering groups objects in this way,
it is referred to as an unsupervised learning model.